xxxvi INTRODUCTlON

beginnings' of a better life came with the discoveryof fire.
Men learned the nature oi this from the igniting of things by
lightning or from the flames produced hythe rubhing together of
the branches of trees. They could now worm their shivering
bodies, and the sun taught them how to cook their food. Then
came the use of clothing of skins, the building of burs, and the
institution of marriage with its sosteni ng influeuces.¹
' Language originated not by invention but by nature. Certain
sonnds came naturally to express certain feelings or designate
particular objects, just as the untaught gestures of infants and
the cries of animals convey a meaning that can be understood.²
Men more gifted than theirfellows found out better ways of doing
things, and taught the others. Kings arose, who began to build
cities and citadels. There was a division of lands and of cattle,
according to beauty of person, physical powem, and preeminence
of ability. But soon men discovered what wealth is; and it
brought in its train a throng of baneful ambitions, wrenching
well-deserved honors from the natural leaders. The kings were
overthrown, and soclety went back to utter anarchy. Finally,
weary of constant strife men agreed to keep the peace with one
another, holding the weak in mutual protection, and forcing
wrong-doers to respect fair laws.8 The origin of religion is to
be found partly in visions in which forms larger than life and
images of the dead seem to he present, partly in the wondering
awe with which men loolred upon the phenomena of the heavens,
the sun, moon, stars‚ meteors‚ lightning, hail, snow, and rain.
Ignorant of the causes of things they attributed the mysterious
processes of nature to the gods, and made for themselves cruel
masters3 hence all manner of degrading rites, the greatest
crimes, and evils innumerable. There is no piety in complying
with the observances required by religion.⁴

The metals were discovered in the burning of forests, for
therehy veins of ore were melted, and ran into hollow places

1 5, ron-275 5, 1091-11042111dnn.6 ² 5‚1028—9o. ³ 5,1105-60.
5, 11 1-1240.

 

