xlviii INTRODUCTION

111. LUCRETIUS As A POET.

(i.) Luceant Cuamcrnnrs‘rtcs os aas Du Renum Narona

Before attempting to form an estimate of Lucretius’ poetic
power it is necessary to inquire, first, whether the poem stands
-to-day as it was lett by him3 and, secondly, whether it passed
from the author’s hands as a finished work.

lt is well established that all the existing manuscripts of the
poem come srom one original manuscript, known as the arche-
type. This was lost long ago. From the fact that all copies
are to be traced to one exemplar, it is obvious that wherever
that was incorrect the error has been perpetuated, and is not to
be remedied by comparison with other manuscripts. Thus it
happens that in all the texts there are certain breaks and corrupt
passages which have taxed the utmost ingenuity os commenta-
torS, without any certainty in the end oi presenting what the
poet wrote. Lucretius, moreover, was one whose views the mon·
astery copyists would not be apt to approve oi. For this reason,
there have crept in many interpolations and transpositions of
passages intended either to reiute the argument or show the

· poet’s inconsistency by quoting him against himself. These

errors, as well as the unavoidable blunders that abound in
manuscripts, have been mostly corrected by the able critical
scholars who have given their attention to the text, and now
“the great mass of the poem ’⁹ is “in a sound and satisfactory
state 3 '' but in some places the thought ot the poet cannot be
detertnined.

As before remarked, there is evidence to prove that at the

' poet's death his work had not yet received the finishing touches.

ln the last three books especially there are awkward sentences,
ill-arranged passages, and wcak repetitions 3 occasionally whole
paragraphs are met with that ill suit the connection andare

 

